Raise exceptions when receiving 400-5xx responses (#38)
scrapinghub/web-poet: docs/advanced/additional-requests.rst

            return item

As the example suggests, we're performing an additional request that allows us

> to extract more images in a product page that MAY NOT be otherwise be possible.

Reviewer: I think in cases like this we shouldn't follow RFC terms. Here we're just explaining the example. I think RFC applies where we explain the rules user needs to follow to implement something, and where we need to be really specific on what's optional and what's not optional.

Author: Reverted some of the updated terms in https://github.com/scrapinghub/web-poet/pull/38/commits/29aa8cc6d81fec598451e8493e91045661e9d9b8.

Handling exceptions using :meth:`~.HttpClient.batch_execute` remains largely the same.
However, the main difference is that you might be wasting perfectly good responses just
because a single request from the batch ruined it. Notice that we're using the base

> exception class of :class:`web_poet.exceptions.http.HttpError` to account for any

Reviewer: we can also add a subclass like BatchHttpError for this case

Reviewer: > or would BatchHttpError only be raised when return_exceptions=False.

I was thinking it should work like this - only raise it when return_exceptions is False.

But actually I think I misread the code, and BatchHttpError may not be a good idea :) 

So, currently we're raising HttpRequestError or HttpResponseError, and catching HttpError, to account for both situations. This sounds like a right behavior to be, better than raising BatchHttpError and catching BatchHttpError.

For frameworks that implement and use **web-poet**, exceptions that ocurred when
handling the additional requests like `connection errors`, `time outs`, `TLS
errors`, etc should be replaced by :class:`web_poet.exceptions.http.HttpRequestError`
by raising it explicitly.

For responses that are not really errors like in the 100-3xx status code range,
this exception shouldn't be raised at all. However, for responses with status
codes in the 400-5xx range, the implementing framework should properly raise

> the exception.

Reviewer: Hey! What do you think about a slightly different approach?

1. State that frameworks must not raise exceptions for 400-5xx status code. They should return an HttpResponse, with a proper status code set. I'm actually not sure how allow_status works in this PR, if a framework raises an exception for 400-5xx codes.
2. Frameworks must raise HttpRequestError for connections errors, etc. I'm not sure about timeouts though; it's fine to make frameworks handle it for now, but we'd need to think about it further.
3. We should define framework behavior for 3xx status codes, for redirects. For example, we can say that frameworks must follow redirects.
4. Probably it's a right time to add another exception class, to be able to distinguish errors without a response, and errors where response is present. We can even have a response as an attribute of this exception: because of (1), this information would be available.

Author: Hi @kmike , let me know what do you think about the points below?

1. Sounds good. It's currently the expectation on the `master` branch. So not much changes here aside from perhaps improving the docs to reflect on it more clearly.

    - I was also thinking of perhaps having a similar interface to [aiohttp](https://docs.aiohttp.org/en/stable/client_reference.html?highlight=errors#aiohttp.ClientResponse.raise_for_status) and [request](https://2.python-requests.org/en/master/api/#requests.Response.raise_for_status) `raise_for_status()` method could cover 400-5xx errors. This shifts the focus of having the errors being the default into an intentional one dictated by the developer.

2. We'll need to improve the docs on this regard regarding raising `HttpRequestError` for connection errors. For timeouts, we can **create** a new exception subclassing from `HttpRequestError`.

3. Got it, we'll need to improve the docs for this one. Perhaps **create** an entirely new section for a framework's checklist.

4. I think we can use the current `HttpRequestError` for errors without a response and **create** a new `HttpReponseError` for errors with responses. In addition, we could also **create** a parent class for both of them, perhaps calling it `HttpError`.

We can create a new PR for this as it has a different approach due to **(1)**.

Reviewer: Hey @BurnzZ! Regarding (1) - I was thinking that frameworks would not be raising these exceptions, but web-poet would.

Author: I see, I got that wrong. Thanks for the clarification! Will edit my points above.

Reviewer: Regarding exceptions: +1 to have 3 exceptions - a base exception, and 2 exceptions for these conditions.

Reviewer: As for timeouts, the main issue is who sets the timeout value - is it a framework, or is it something which can be controlled in PO? I think so far we've been side-stepping it, and letting framework to manage it. 

But it means that  using a specific timeout for a specific request, e.g. 
* decreasing it for requests which should be fast, or 
* increasing for requests which are expected to take long, or 
* setting a timeout if a library doesn't have a timeout

can't be done. I don't think this is something to solve in this PR, but it's something to think about.

Author: Hi @kmike ! I've reorganized the docs to better document all of these things. The main change is to properly distinguish the docs for Page Object developers vs developers that would implement a framework for **web-poet**. https://github.com/scrapinghub/web-poet/pull/38/commits/3ebb2973aaaea79bff7b9f4f033628233b9d8b87.

The new base class exception named `HttpError` was also introduced. https://github.com/scrapinghub/web-poet/pull/38/commits/470bc6f417431168d0138762dbf76d12801163c4.

Kindly let me know if there are other specific things we need to explicitly document here that were missed out.

----

Regarding the timeouts, yeah, that's indeed tricky. It also adds some additional complexity to Page Objects, since aside from knowing how to construct the requests, it would also need to consider _(and establish an expectation)_ how long it would take the response to arrive.

There would be some factors that the Page Objects might not have access to, like the number of requests made to the same domain in the past minute _(which could timeout due to rate limiting)_ or the shifting tide of non-`200` responses for a given domain _(where the site could throttle down requests as well)_. Letting a Page Object decide on timeouts based on limited knowledge is difficult.

I think at least for the short-term, we can let the framework handle it.

From the code sample above, we can see that every time an :class:`~.HttpClient`
is created for Page Objects needing an ``http_client``, the specific **request
implementation** from a given framework is injected to it.

Downloader Behavior
-------------------

> The Downloader should be able to accept an instance of :class:`~.HttpRequest`

Reviewer: It's a general comment about framework docs. I wonder if we should use stronger language, similar to how it's used in RFCs: https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2119.txt. 

So, Downloader MUST accept an instance of :class:`~.HttpRequest`, not "should accept" it, and it MUST either return an instance of :class:`~.HttpResponse` or raise  a subclass of HttpRequestError.

What do you think about it @BurnzZ ?

Author: Good call! Updated the docs in https://github.com/scrapinghub/web-poet/pull/38/commits/b889fb974f935fe0c27902cfdc9cbb2b186fad0f to follow RFC 2119's guidelines.

as the input and return an instance of :class:`~.HttpResponse`. This is important
in order to handle and represent generic HTTP operations. The only time that
it won't be returning :class:`~.HttpResponse` would be when it's raising exceptions
(see :ref:`framework-exception-handling`).

The Downloader should be able to properly resolve **redirections** except when

> the method is ``HEAD``. This means that the :class:`~.HttpResponse` that it'll

Reviewer: > except when the method is ``HEAD``

That's an interesting behavior. It seems right to me. I wonder how easy would it be to implement it though. For example, Scrapy seems to redirect in case of HEAD: https://github.com/scrapy/scrapy/blob/b2afcbfe2bf090827540d072866bef0d1ab3a3e8/scrapy/downloadermiddlewares/redirect.py#L102

Author: Thanks for raising this @kmike ! I didn't that this was the default behavior of Scrapy. 

I think the easiest route would be for **scrapy-poet** to set `meta={'dont_redirect'=True}` when it sees a `HEAD` request method. Added a note in the TODO section of https://github.com/scrapinghub/scrapy-poet/pull/62 so we wouldn't forget.

be rendering is already the end of the redirection trail.

Laslty, the Downloader should also be able to fully support :mod:`asyncio` to

> enable developers to perform additional requests asynchronously.

Author: Good catch! I was meaning to write `async/await` here but written down `asyncio` for some reason. Updated in https://github.com/scrapinghub/web-poet/pull/38/commits/38a53c9f823478f223515527fc47e5f99efd5827

Expected behavior for Exceptions
********************************

All exceptions that the HTTP Downloader Implementation (see :ref:`advanced-downloader-impl`
doc section) explicitly raises when implementing it for **web-poet** should be
:class:`web_poet.exceptions.http.HttpError` *(or a subclass from it)*. 

For frameworks that implement and use **web-poet**, exceptions that ocurred when
handling the additional requests like `connection errors`, `TLS errors`, etc should
be replaced by :class:`web_poet.exceptions.http.HttpRequestError` by raising it
explicitly.

For responses that are not really errors like in the ``100-3xx`` status code range,
no exception should be raised at all. For responses with status codes in 
the ``400-5xx`` range, **web-poet** raises the :class:`web_poet.exceptions.http.HttpResponseError`
exception.

From this distinction, the framework shouldn't raise :class:`web_poet.exceptions.http.HttpResponseError`
on its own at all, since the :class:`~.HttpClient` already handles that. However,
the implementing framework could modify which status codes to allow (*meaning no
exceptions raised*) using the ``allow_status`` parameter in the

> :class:`~.HttpClient` methods.

Reviewer: I'm not sure I understand this part. Shouldn't it be like this:

1. Framework never raises HttpResponseError. Framework also has nothing to do with allow_status, it doesn't need to know about it.
2. web-poet takes a response, and can raise HttpResponseError, depending on allow_status value.

Author: I've corrected this in https://github.com/scrapinghub/web-poet/pull/38/commits/c5244b9fe04201529f3d78733e7cdeffcf7a4d54. Thanks!

From the code sample above, we can see that every time an :class:`~.HttpClient`
is created for Page Objects needing an ``http_client``, the specific **request
implementation** from a given framework is injected to it.

Downloader Behavior
-------------------

The Downloader MUST be able to accept an instance of :class:`~.HttpRequest`
as the input and return an instance of :class:`~.HttpResponse`. This is important
in order to handle and represent generic HTTP operations. The only time that
it won't be returning :class:`~.HttpResponse` would be when it's raising exceptions
(see :ref:`framework-exception-handling`).

> The Downloader MUST be able to properly resolve **redirections** except when
> the method is ``HEAD``. This means that the :class:`~.HttpResponse` that it'll
> be rendering is already the end of the redirection trail.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Downloader MUST resolve Location-based **redirections** when the HTTP 
method is not ``HEAD``. In other words, for non-``HEAD`` requests the 
returned :class:`~.HttpResponse` must be the final response, after all redirects. 
For ``HEAD`` requests redirects MUST NOT be resolved. 
```

> Lastly, the Downloader MUST also be able to fully support the ``async/await``
> syntax in order to enable developers to perform additional requests asynchronously.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Lastly, the Downloader MUST support the ``async/await``
syntax in order to enable developers to perform additional requests asynchronously.
```
